Covariate shift occurs when the distribution of variables in the training data is different to real-world or testing data. This means that the model may make the wrong predictions once it is deployed, and its accuracy will be significantly lower.
Researchers found that due to the variation in the distribution of activations from the output of a given hidden layer, which are used as the input to a subsequent layer, the network layers can suffer from covariate shift which can impede the training of deep neural networks.
Batch normalization is a technique to standardize the inputs to a network, applied to ether the activations of a prior layer or inputs directly. Batch normalization accelerates training, in some cases by halving the epochs or better, and provides some regularization, reducing generalization error.
Now coming back to Batch normalization, it is a process to make neural networks faster and more stable through adding extra layers in a deep neural network. The new layer performs the standardizing and normalizing operations on the input of a layer coming from a previous layer.
Batch normalization is a technique for training very deep neural networks that standardizes the inputs to a layer for each mini-batch. This has the effect of stabilizing the learning process and dramatically reducing the number of training epochs required to train deep networks.
The LeNet architecture is an excellent “first architecture” for Convolutional Neural Networks (especially when trained on the MNIST dataset, an image dataset for handwritten digit recognition). LeNet is small and easy to understand — yet large enough to provide interesting results.
The LeNet-5 architecture consists of two sets of convolutional and average pooling layers, followed by a flattening convolutional layer, then two fully-connected layers and finally a softmax classifier.
AlexNet was the first convolutional network which used GPU to boost performance. 1. AlexNet architecture consists of 5 convolutional layers, 3 max-pooling layers, 2 normalization layers, 2 fully connected layers, and 1 softmax layer.
AlexNet is the name of a convolutional neural network which has had a large impact on the field of machine learning, specifically in the application of deep learning to machine vision. It famously won the 2012 ImageNet LSVRC-2012 competition by a large margin (15.3% VS 26.2% (second place) error rates).
AlexNet is a convolutional neural network that is 8 layers deep. You can load a pretrained version of the network trained on more than a million images from the ImageNet database [1]. The pretrained network can classify images into 1000 object categories, such as keyboard, mouse, pencil, and many animals.
The vanishing gradient problem is caused by the derivative of the activation function used to create the neural network. The simplest solution to the problem is to replace the activation function of the network. Instead of sigmoid, use an activation function such as ReLU.
The vanishing gradient problem requires us to use small learning rates with gradient descent which then needs many small steps to converge. This is a problem if you have a slow computer which takes a long time for each step. If you have a fast GPU which can perform many more steps in a day, this is less of a problem.
For the vanishing gradient problem, the further you go through the network, the lower your gradient is and the harder it is to train the weights, which has a domino effect on all of the further weights throughout the network. That was the main roadblock to using Recurrent Neural Networks.
Local Response Normalization (LRN) was first introduced in AlexNet architecture where the activation function used was ReLU as opposed to the more common tanh and sigmoid at that time. Apart from the reason mentioned above, the reason for using LRN was to encourage lateral inhibition.Local Response Normalization (LRN) was first introduced in AlexNet architecture where the activation function used was ReLU as opposed to the more common tanh and sigmoid at that time. Apart from the reason mentioned above, the reason for using LRN was to encourage lateral inhibition.
In biological brain functionality, there is a concept called lateral inhibition. This refers to the capacity of one stimulated neuron to bring its neighbors under control. The main agenda for us is to have a local peak value for finding the maximum value in the neighborhood.
The regularization used in this network is L2 with a weight decay of 5e-4. It was trained on GTX580 GPU which contains 3GB of memory. It has an error rate of 16.4 in the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge(ILSVRC).
Weight regularization is a generic approach. It can be used with most, perhaps all, types of neural network models, not least the most common network types of Multilayer Perceptrons, Convolutional Neural Networks, and Long Short-Term Memory Recurrent Neural Networks.
VGG is a classical convolutional neural network architecture. It was based on an analysis of how to increase the depth of such networks. The network utilises small 3 x 3 filters. Otherwise the network is characterized by its simplicity: the only other components being pooling layers and a fully connected layer.
VGG- Network is a convolutional neural network model proposed by K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman in the paper “Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition” [1]. This architecture achieved top-5 test accuracy of 92.7% in ImageNet, which has over 14 million images belonging to 1000 classes.
VGG incorporates 1x1 convolutional layers to make the decision function more non-linear without changing the receptive fields. The small-size convolution filters allows VGG to have a large number of weight layers; of course, more layers leads to improved performance.
VGG- Network is a convolutional neural network model proposed by K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman in the paper “Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition” [1]. This architecture achieved top-5 test accuracy of 92.7% in ImageNet, which has over 14 million images belonging to 1000 classes.
Regularization is a technique that penalizes the coefficient. In an overfit model, the coefficients are generally inflated. Thus, Regularization adds penalties to the parameters and avoids them weigh heavily. The coefficients are added to the cost function of the linear equation.
egularization methods like L1 and L2 reduce overfitting by modifying the cost function. Dropout on the other hand, modify the network itself. It randomly drops neurons from the neural network during training in each iteration.
Regularization refers to techniques that are used to calibrate machine learning models in order to minimize the adjusted loss function and prevent overfitting or underfitting. Using Regularization, we can fit our machine learning model appropriately on a given test set and hence reduce the errors in it.
Regularization attemts to reduce the variance of the estimator by simplifying it, something that will increase the bias, in such a way that the expected error decreases. Often this is done in cases when the problem is ill-posed, e.g. when the number of parameters is greater than the number of samples.
